---
title: Another blog post on six months co-hosting a creative coding bookclub
description: Honestly, you can skip it if you're already read Luis's post. If you haven't, you can find a link to it in this post.
pubDate: 2025-07-02
slug: another-blog-post-on-six-months-co-hosting-a-creative-coding-bookclub
---

I decided to create and write this post before even thinking what I wanted to talk about.  
I'm not going to repeat what [Luis](https://mastodon.social/@luissb) already said in his [very nice and detailed post](https://luis.earth/blog/en/six-months-co-hosting-a-creative-coding-bookclub). So, I guess, if you want to know the _history_ of the bookclub, click that link and read his post. It's worth it. From now on, there will be only my messy thoughts, up for grab, for free, as per usual. I'm nice like that.  

I have been organising _stuff_ for years. It's one of those things that I started doing at some point in my life and then it became kind of a habit. **We need this thing. I will organise it!** It is that simple.
Like everything I do, I prefer doing it in collaboration with others. It's much more fun and it's good to share responsibilities and tasks. Like many other things people do, I don't think a special _talent_ or _training_ or _whatever_ is needed to organise. Of course, experience helps, so, ideally, a less expert or novice organiser would organise with a more expert one so to avoid the usual shortcomings. The two will eventually learn from each other because every individual is unique and we all have skills and knowledge to share. Besides that, what's needed is mostly resilience and a big bucket of energy you're willing (and able to) spend. The rest will fall in place as you work on it. Some things can't be predicted, some things can't be avoided, some things will go wrong no matter what, but such is the nature of all things, not only some, so you better embrace it ASAP.  

However, I had never organised a bookclub before or a creative coding event. The idea of organising a crossover between these two things sounded very fun, and would also selfishly serve to hold myself accountable for going through [the book](https://natureofcode.com/). I was ready to go on this adventure solo, but having Luis joining me was actually a blessing, especially when I realised how tired I was (and am) and needed to [rethink how much I was doing in my life](https://www.mickeymarse.dev/blog/where-have-i-been/). It turned out to be fun. Bookclubs are fun and creative coding is fun. People are fun too. Have all these things in one place and the experience is inevitably fun. However, it comes without saying that, running an event involving a bookclub and creative coding at the same time can offer some challenges.  

Like many other, I also missed a chapter or two in the mix. Sadly, though, this is not the space where you can get away with a summary and some elaborated lies supported by meaningful context. You have theory that can't be made up (for most part), and, sometimes, you got a room full of people who haven't read the chapter neither and that only add to the pressure and reduces the amount of things you can make up on the fly. Luckily, there seems to be a stream of nice people in the [London Creative Coding scene](https://www.pastagang.cc/london/) and many of them stepped up to the occasion by, sometimes, literally running the event. This is great, but I believe is still far from [not doing anything](https://www.todepond.com/sky/event-organisers/) for your event because it will resolve itself.  
The interventions were all planned, we had an agenda, we knew what was going to happen even before it would happen. I love bottom-up events, where attendees are meant to shape it through their participation. But I believe we need to introduce/explain/show to the people that this is what's happening in advance. Some people might not want to join for that reason. Some people might misunderstand what that means and harm or alienate others in the process. Guidelines need to be drawn in order for all of us to navigate the space in the safest possible way, jump in and out of it and feeling comfortable in sharing when feeling uncomfortable. We are raised and educated in a hierarchichal and _leader-centric_ society, people expect someone to be in charge. And these expectations can be changed by good faith only. But I'm digressing. This is a whole other post (or conversation) which needs its own space and time.  

Anyhow, organising is tiring and summers near the end of the world are getting hotter so I'm glad Luis called for a break of CCB for now, while inviting people to meet for more informal chats. It's hard to know how a bookclub is doing when you're not even sure if the attendees are reading the book. But people are still showing up and engaging, which means there must be some sort of interest out there, and maybe it can be captured with an informal meetup not held in the gallery of a London university.  

Also, almost forgot! One of the many amazing things Luis did over these six months was spending many hours in building (and re-building) [the beautiful CCB website](https://creativecodingbook.club/). And I know he's been having fun doing it, but I'm super grateful nonetheless and I will never thank him enough for that. Check it out, play with it, and tell him about all the bugs you find so he can spend more sleepless nights coding away!  

This post ended up being way longer and _ranty_ than expected. I guess I am truly tired.  
I would love to know what you think about the bookclub if you've attended, if you have ideas, critiques, suggestions or if you want to take over and tell the two of us to go swim in the Mediterranean sea. I'm open to all of these and more. If you're reading this post, you probably already have a way to get in touch with me, so do it if you want.  

In the meantime, please, wash your rice before cooking it.